.TH LIPO 1 "July 28, 2005" "Apple Computer, Inc."
.SH NAME
lipo \- create or operate on universal files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lipo
[\-info]
[\-detailed_info]
[\-arch
.IR "arch_type input_file" "] ..."
[
.IR input_file "] ..."
[\-create]
[\-thin
.IR arch_type ]
[\-replace
.IR "arch_type filename" "] ..."
[\-remove
.IR arch_type "] ..."
[\-extract
.IR arch_type "] ..."
[\-extract_family
.IR arch_type "] ..."
[\-output
.IR output_file ]
[\-segalign
.IR "arch_type value" "] ..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I lipo
command creates or operates on ``universal'' (multi-architecture) files.
It only ever produces one output file, 
and never alters the input file.  The operations that 
.I lipo 
performs are:
listing the architecture types in a universal file;
creating a single universal file from one or more input files; 
thinning out a single universal file to one specified architecture type;
and extracting, replacing, and/or removing architectures
types from the input file to create a single new universal output file.
.PP
Only one option can be specified, 
with the exception of
.BR \-arch ,
.BR \-output ,
and
.BR \-segalign ,
which are used in combination with other options.
The
.I input_file
argument is required, and only the 
.B \-create
option allows more than one
.I input_file
to be specified.
The 
.B \-output
flag must be used, except with the 
.BI \-info
and
.BI \-detailed_info
flags.  
.PP
The  
.I arch_type 
arguments may be any of the supported architecture names listed in the man page
.IR arch (3).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.BI \-info
Briefly list the architecture types in the input universal file 
(just the names of each architecture).
.TP
.BI \-detailed_info
Display a detailed list of the architecture types in the input universal file 
(all the the information in the universal header, for each architecture in the
file).
.TP
.BI \-arch " arch_type input_file"
Tells
.I lipo
that
.I input_file
contains the specified architecture type.  
The
.BI \-arch " arch_type"
specification is unnecessary if 
.I input_file
is an
object file, a universal file, or some other file whose architecture(s)
.I lipo
can figure out.
.TP
.BI \-output " output_file"
Specifies its argument to be the output file.
.TP
.B \-create
Take the input files (or file) and create one universal output file from them. 
.TP
.BI \-thin " arch_type"
Take one input file and create a thin output file with the specified
.IR arch_type .
.TP
.BI \-replace " arch_type file_name"
Take one universal input file; in the output file, replace the
.I arch_type
contents of the input file with the contents of the specified
.IR file_name .
.TP
.BI \-remove " arch_type"
Take one universal input file and remove the
.I arch_type
from that universal file, placing the result in the output file.
.TP
.BI \-extract " arch_type"
Take one universal input file and copy the
.I arch_type
from that universal file into a universal output file containing
only that architecture.  
.TP
.BI \-extract_family " arch_type"
Take one universal input file and copy all of the 
.IR arch_type s
for the family that
.I arch_type
is in from that universal file into an output file containing
only those architectures.  The file will be thin if only one architecture is
found or universal otherwise.
.TP
.BI \-segalign " arch_type value"
Set the segment alignment of the specified
.I arch_type
when creating a universal file containing that architecture.
.I value
is a hexadecimal number that must be an integral power of 2.
This is only needed when
.I lipo
can't figure out the alignment of an input file 
(currently not an object file),
or when it guesses at the alignment too conservatively.
The default for files unknown to
.I lipo
is 0 (2^0, or an alignment of one byte), 
and the default alignment for archives
is 4 (2^2, or 4-byte alignment).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
arch(3)
