.Dd July 28, 2005
.Dt ARCH 3
.Sh NAME
.Nm NXGetAllArchInfos ,
.Nm NXGetLocalArchInfo ,
.Nm NXGetArchInfoFromName ,
.Nm NXGetArchInfoFromCpuType ,
.Nm NXFindBestFatArch ,
.Nm NXCombineCpuSubtypes
.Nd get architecture information
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In mach-o/arch.h
.Ft extern const NXArchInfo *
.Fn NXGetAllArchInfos "void"
.Ft extern const NXArchInfo *
.Fn NXGetLocalArchInfo "void"
.Ft extern const NXArchInfo *
.Fn NXGetArchInfoFromName "const char *name"
.Ft extern const NXArchInfo *
.Fn NXGetArchInfoFromCpuType "cpu_type_t cputype" "cpu_subtype_t cpusubtype"
.Ft extern struct fat_arch *
.Fn NXFindBestFatArch "cpu_type_t cputype" "cpu_subtype_t cpusubtype" "struct fat_arch *fat_archs" "unsigned long nfat_archs"
.Ft extern cpu_subtype_t
.Fn NXCombineCpuSubtypes "cpu_type_t cputype" "cpu_subtype_t cpusubtype1" "cpu_subtype_t cpusubtype2"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions are intended for use in programs that have to deal with
universal files or programs that can target multiple architectures.
Typically, a program will use a command-line argument that starts with
.Dq \-arch \fBname\fR ,
where this specifies an architecture.
These functions and data structures provide some help for processing
architecture flags and then processing the contents of a universal file.
.Pp
The structure
.Ar NXArchInfo
is defined in
.Aq Pa mach-o/arch.h :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	typedef struct {
		const char *name;
		cpu_type_t cputype;
		cpu_subtype_t cpusubtype;
		enum NXByteOrder byteorder;
		const char *description;
	} NXArchInfo;
.Ed
It is used to hold the name of the architecture and the corresponding CPU type
and CPU subtype, together with the architecture's byte order and a brief description string.
.Pp
The currently known architectures are:
.Bl -column hppa7100LC CPU_TYPE_POWERPC CPU_SUBTYPE_MC68030_ONLY
.It Em Name Ta Em "CPU Type" Ta Em "CPU Subtype" Ta Em Description
.It ppc Ta CPU_TYPE_POWERPC Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_POWERPC_ALL Ta PowerPC
.It ppc64 Ta CPU_TYPE_POWERPC64 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_POWERPC64_ALL Ta PowerPC (interim 64-bit)
.It i386 Ta CPU_TYPE_I386 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_I386_ALL Ta Intel 80x86
.It m68k Ta CPU_TYPE_MC680x0 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_MC680x0_ALL Ta Motorola 68K
.It hppa Ta CPU_TYPE_HPPA Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_HPPA_ALL Ta HP-PA
.It i860 Ta CPU_TYPE_I860 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_I860_ALL Ta Intel 860
.It m88k Ta CPU_TYPE_MC88000 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_MC88000_ALL Ta Motorola 88K
.It sparc Ta CPU_TYPE_SPARC Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_SPARC_ALL Ta SPARC
.It ppc601 Ta CPU_TYPE_POWERPC Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_POWERPC_601 Ta PowerPC 601
.It ppc603 Ta CPU_TYPE_POWERPC Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_POWERPC_603 Ta PowerPC 603
.It ppc604 Ta CPU_TYPE_POWERPC Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_POWERPC_604 Ta PowerPC 604
.It ppc604e Ta CPU_TYPE_POWERPC Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_POWERPC_604e Ta PowerPC 604e
.It ppc750 Ta CPU_TYPE_POWERPC Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_POWERPC_750 Ta PowerPC 750
.It ppc7400 Ta CPU_TYPE_POWERPC Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_POWERPC_7400 Ta PowerPC 7400
.It ppc7450 Ta CPU_TYPE_POWERPC Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_POWERPC_7450 Ta PowerPC 7450
.It ppc970 Ta CPU_TYPE_POWERPC Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_POWERPC_970 Ta PowerPC 970
.It i486 Ta CPU_TYPE_I386 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_486 Ta Intel 486
.It i486SX Ta CPU_TYPE_I386 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_486SX Ta Intel 486SX
.It pentium Ta CPU_TYPE_I386 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_PENT Ta Intel Pentium
.It i586 Ta CPU_TYPE_I386 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_586 Ta Intel 586
.It pentpro Ta CPU_TYPE_I386 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_PENTPRO Ta Intel Pentium Pro
.It i686 Ta CPU_TYPE_I386 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_PENTPRO Ta Intel Pentium Pro
.It pentIIm3 Ta CPU_TYPE_I386 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_PENTII_M3 Ta Intel Pentium II Model 3
.It pentIIm5 Ta CPU_TYPE_I386 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_PENTII_M5 Ta Intel Pentium II Model 5
.It pentium4 Ta CPU_TYPE_I386 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_PENTIUM_4 Ta Intel Pentium 4
.It m68030 Ta CPU_TYPE_MC680x0 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_MC68030_ONLY Ta Motorola 68030
.It m68040 Ta CPU_TYPE_MC680x0 Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_MC68040 Ta Motorola 68040
.It hppa7100LC Ta CPU_TYPE_HPPA Ta CPU_SUBTYPE_HPPA_7100LC Ta HP-PA 7100LC
.El
.Pp
The first set of entries are used for the architecture family.
The second set of entries are used for a specific architecture, when more than
one specific architecture is supported in a family of architectures.
.Pp
.Fn NXGetAllArchInfos
returns a pointer to an array of all known
NXArchInfo structures.  The last NXArchInfo is marked by a NULL name.
.Pp
.Fn NXGetLocalArchInfo
returns the NXArchInfo for the local host, or NULL if none is known. 
.Pp
.Fn NXGetArchInfoFromName
and
.Fn NXGetArchInfoFromCpuType
return the NXArchInfo from the architecture's name or CPU type/CPU subtype
combination.
A CPU subtype of CPU_SUBTYPE_MULTIPLE can be used to request the most general
NXArchInfo known for the given CPU type.
NULL is returned if no matching NXArchInfo can be found.
.Pp
.Fn NXFindBestFatArch
is passed a CPU type and CPU subtype and a set of fat_arch structs.
It selects the best one that matches (if any), and returns a pointer to that
fat_arch struct (or NULL).
The fat_arch structs must be in the host byte order and correct such that
fat_archs really points to enough memory for nfat_archs structs.
It is possible that this routine could fail if new CPU types or CPU subtypes
are added and an old version of this routine is used.
But if there is an exact match between the CPU type and CPU subtype and one of
the fat_arch structs, this routine will always succeed.
.Pp
.Fn NXCombineCpuSubtypes
returns the resulting CPU subtype when combining two different CPU subtypes for
the specified CPU type.
If the two CPU subtypes can't be combined (the specific subtypes are mutually
exclusive), -1 is returned, indicating it is an error to combine them.
This can also fail and return -1 if new CPU types or CPU subtypes are added
and an old version of this routine is used.
But if the CPU subtypes are the same, they can always be combined and this
routine will return the CPU subtype passed in.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arch 1
